Good morning and welcome to the
last session of our Worldwide
Developers Conference '05.
You guys are the true die-hard
developers to be here today.
We have a great program
with the Eclipse guys.
And so without further ado,
let me go ahead and introduce
to you Bjorn Freeman-Benson,
our Technical Director for
OS Processes and Infrastructure
of the Eclipse Foundation.
Welcome Bjorn, please.
And so just to be completely clear,
OS is open source, not operating system.
So the thing that I wanted to talk
a little bit about for a few minutes
to the few people who are still here
is some of the overviews of Eclipse.
And then Daniel is going to come up
and give some actual hands-on demos.
And if you guys had, say,
gigabit ethernet fiber to your laptops,
you could,
if you hadn't downloaded Eclipse yet,
download it onto your machines.
On the other hand,
we're betting that if you start now,
you're not going to finish in time.
So if you've got it, you can play along.
If you don't, you can get it later and
memorize what you did.
The general thing about the Eclipse
development environment is that it's
not just a development environment.
Originally,
in version one of the Eclipse project,
it was a Java IDE.
But since then,
the Eclipse Foundation and the
Eclipse member companies have been
working to build it into more than
just a Java development environment.
Although today's talk with Daniel's
demo is going to emphasize mostly
on the Java development environment,
I wanted to say a few words about
some of the other things as well.
But before I do,
I'm curious how many of you
actually have used Eclipse,
downloaded Eclipse.
So if I do that general stuff,
you already know those answers.
And in fact, Daniel,
you might want to speed up the
first few slides or something,
because these people already
know what they're talking about.
So many of you might have already seen
these slides about what is Eclipse,
but I'll go over them a little bit.
We claim on the Eclipse Foundation that
it basically is four components.
There's a client runtime.
There's a number of extensible
application platform frameworks
that you can build on.
There's some extensible tool platforms.
And then on top of that,
the thing we're talking about today
is the Java development tooling.
Now, you could just subtract the
Java development tooling,
and you could build some
other tooling on top of that.
So we have a C++ tooling.
We have Fortran tooling.
We're going to have Pascal soon.
We have COBOL.
We have test and performance.
We have business intelligence
reporting and a whole bunch of
other things that are built on
top of the same tooling platform.
Or you can subtract it even farther,
and you could get a runtime system
that you use for rich clients.
So you could just build a
rich client platform with the
basic user interface things.
You could build some tools.
Or in this case,
we're going to talk about
Java development tools.
The interesting-- well,
so when we talk about the
Java development tools,
almost all of you have downloaded it.
I didn't actually notice how many
people hadn't raised their hands.
But there's what it looks like.
It has boxes and sort of things.
If you look over here,
and if I press the button right-- oh,
I guess it doesn't even work-- you
have all the things that you expect
in a standard development environment.
The interesting thing to me about
the Java development tooling of
Eclipse is that it keeps an entire
model of the Java program in memory
while you're busy editing it.
And so that allows you to do interesting
things from the tooling perspective
that you wouldn't otherwise be able
to do if you were just looking at text.
So we have the usual stuff
like automatic background,
incremental building, and so on.
But we have things like this,
like code assistance and code
completion and these sort of things.
And you can do these strictly
based on text pattern matching.
But Daniel will show that if you
just use text pattern matching,
there are a few cases you can't catch.
But if you use an actual
model behind the scenes,
you can catch more information
about the system and do better
versions of code completion.
You can do code completion for
Java 5 generics and keeping track
of all the type parameters and
the wildcard type parameters and
the constrained wildcard type type
parameters and that sort of thing.
You can do linked editing,
which is down there at the bottom.
So linked editing is where you go to,
say, a variable name in the Java program
and you rename it by typing over it,
and it renames all of the others
at the same time throughout the
program simultaneously on the screen
because it's got a model back there.
And it's not just text
replace of each one.
It's actually changing that
model element back there.
Now, on the debug side, you know,
it has the sort of things that
you'd expect from a modern
programming environment.
You can do hot code replace if
your JVM underneath supports that.
You can evaluate expressions.
For those of you who know the
history of the Smalltalk language,
a lot of the people who built
the JVM -- the JDT tooling for
Eclipse came from Smalltalk,
and they really missed being able
to evaluate expressions on the fly,
so they added that in.
You know,
it has searching that you would expect.
refactoring tools.
It has Ant.
It has JUnit.
It has these things that you expect
when you're developing with Java.
More important from the point of view
of the Eclipse organization is that
it's got these extension APIs where
you can extend the existing Eclipse
to do other interesting things.
So you can build your own tools
on top of these frameworks.
You can extend these tools
and frameworks yourself.
So this little picture over
here is a picture of some of the
searching that you can do because,
again, you have that model in memory.
So you can search not
just on text things,
but also actual code fragments.
One of the things that these
standard slides that the Eclipse
Foundation likes to show,
talk about, is that Eclipse is built
on a series of plug-ins.
Personally, even though I'm from the
Foundation to talk about it,
don't feel that that's
such an interesting thing,
because everything these
days is built on plug-ins.
Operating systems are built on plug-ins.
I mean, I think my Toyota Corolla
is built on plug-ins.
So here's the slide that says,
"Everything's built on a plug-in."
So as many of you who know Eclipse know,
we have released 1.0, 2.0, 2.1, 3.0,
and now 3.1.
And there were a number of themes
in each one of those releases.
For 3.1, the themes were scaling up,
being able to handle
much larger programs,
making sure that we had Java 5 support,
making it enterprise ready,
which I'm a little vague on
exactly what that term is,
except that there are a lot of
large customers who want to build
large systems with many tools.
And then the one at the bottom,
Design for Extensibility,
is Be a Better Platform.
One of the things that the Eclipse
Foundation and all of its member
companies are trying to do is not
just design the best Java IDE,
but to build a platform on which other
companies can build successful tools.
So we're not just
building a successful IDE,
which is what Daniel's going to show you,
but there are a number of APIs that
you can build your own tools on top of,
or build them and sell them.
One of the big emphasis
that the Eclipse team,
especially from IBM,
has spent a lot of time on,
the entire history of Eclipse is making
sure that the performance is good.
And it's one of those things where it's
not a single large task that they did,
but they constantly worked on
incrementally improving each of the
little things that they could to get the
performance better and better and better.
As you know, building a system that works
fast is just a non-trivial task.
And they have this nice little graph.
It shows their tests,
and a few of them run
a little bit slower.
They run this on every
single nightly build,
and it shows what the
performance characteristics are.
[Transcript missing]
There's a number of user
interface improvements.
I can sort of wave my hand.
There's more preferences,
which means-- although, personally,
I can't see that as an improvement,
because it just means there's
more things to configure.
But I guess it means there's
more things that can make it
look exactly like you want it to.
We have dynamic help.
There's lots of new quick assists,
so you can get comments on your code.
You can get critiques on your code.
You can refactor your code, and so on.
There's a few things in the runtime.
Maybe the only interesting
one is this Java web start.
You know, there's a few other things.
You can sign your jars now.
You can make your
plug-ins as a single jar.
Again,
for people who are just using the tool,
it doesn't really matter whether we
have bundle permissions underneath.
You don't really care.
That would only be if you're planning to,
say, release secure applications with it.
And then, of course,
there's the Java 5 features,
which are perhaps the
most significant change,
I feel, in the Eclipse JDT for 3.1,
which is, as you know,
Java 5 has a lot of new
typing features and so on,
which add a great deal of
complexity to the parser and,
therefore, to the IDE.
So, for instance,
when you're doing code assist,
you want to make sure that the
code assist handles generic
types and wildcarded types and
constrained types and so on.
And similarly with refactoring.
Now you can go and
refactor and you just do,
you know, instead of just the simple
ones like rename or move
method up or move method down,
there's refactorings that
take types and make them into
generic types or back and forth.
There's ones that take, you know,
collections and map them
over to generic collections.
And so there's a whole bunch
of refactorings that you
would use when you're actually
developing with Java 5 code.
Java 5 does auto-boxing.
So one of the things that the compiler
does to make sure that the code is
in the right place is to make sure
that the code is in the right place.
One of the problems with auto-boxing,
of course, is if you accidentally use it,
you might get results you didn't
expect or you might get performance
problems because while it's handy,
it does have a cost.
So you can turn on a feature in the
compiler and it'll tell you where
all the auto-boxing is happening,
highlighting them with little yellow
underscores and that sort of thing.
and you go out and you get the resource,
and you format into the string,
and you put it off.
But of course,
when you do that in your Java code,
what you have in your
Java code is a magic key.
You don't have the actual string.
But the Eclipse IDE will now show
you the actual string in the editor,
even though it's stored in the bundle,
and you can switch back and forth
between the bundle and the actual
string by hitting-- I think it's
the F5 key will take you there
or it will take you back again.
And it'll also do spell
checking across the messages,
even though they're in a text file,
rather than in the actual source file.
And so they've made the support for
making internationalized applications,
at least at the text replacement level,
much easier.
Now, of course,
there's a lot of other features in
making an international application,
but I'm sure that in 3.2,
they'll get farther along on that.
And then here's that
thing about better APIs.
There's generalize, undo, redo.
I'm going to sort of wave my hands here.
Just saying better APIs doesn't
really solve your problem unless
you had a specific problem that
you needed an API to solve.
If you're a tool user,
it doesn't really matter whether the
tool is well-built underneath or not,
as long as it's solving
your particular problem.
One of the things that they've
been working on in 3.1 is this
language toolkit enhancements.
And they're going to work on
that substantially more in
3.2 to make it easier to add--
To add new languages.
So at the moment,
it's quite easy to add a
new Java-like language,
and not so easy to add a
new non-Java-like language.
But there are many other languages out
there that you might want to incorporate,
and so they're working on making
the support for languages more
generic and less Java-specific.
One of the things that
was announced recently,
I think, was it Tuesday?
was that the Apple people
actually have a universal binary
now for the Eclipse development.
So it'll run on the new Intel processors
as well as the existing processors.
And that you could do this
without making any code changes,
just slight make file changes,
and it recompiled, which was quite nice.
And I don't know why this slide says
what you'll learn this afternoon,
because by my clock, it's evening.
But hey.
So Daniel--
And I don't know why this slide says
what you'll learn this afternoon,
because by my clock, it's evening.
But hey.
So Daniel--
[Transcript missing]
So if you've got Eclipse
installed and you'd like to
fire it up and follow along,
that'll be fun for all of us.
The first thing you have to
do when you start up Eclipse,
and this is something
that they often stress,
is starting a project is
not a common activity.
It's working in a project day after day.
So these aren't the steps that you
have to take over and over again.
But identifying a workspace,
and this is just your
own private preference.
Do you like to keep all your
projects in a single workspace?
Do you like to keep different
projects in different workspaces?
It's the way you want
to organize your work.
Different people have
different preferences.
The same way that you might keep all your
files in a one-subversion repository,
you might spread them
across several of them.
Once you've selected your workspace,
go ahead and create a project.
And we'll go through this quickly because
you're all pretty familiar with this.
The two projects we'll talk
about today are a regular
Java project and a plug-in project.
And this might be the best
trick to take away with you.
If you haven't seen it documented and you
forget what the keyboard shortcuts are,
make a note to yourself, Command-Shift-L,
and that should bring up all the
available shortcuts to you in Eclipse.
Okay?
So let's go to the demo real quick.
Yeah.
And we're going to fire up
Xcode because we needed some
code that you could work on.
And so there's nothing better to work
on than the spotlight-- I'm sorry,
the swing template in Xcode.
And so my favorite feature,
how do you know Xcode has started?
Well, you don't.
So if you start up and create
yourself a Java swing application,
and give it some name
that you can remember,
like WWDC,
And now let's open up Eclipse
and we'll use that code.
So quickly,
we'll get to the code aware stuff.
You need a workspace.
Choose any workspace you'd like.
Then you're going to
fire up a new project,
dance around quietly
while Eclipse starts up.
That's much faster than it used to be,
so that's quite an improvement.
They're at release
candidate one right now.
They're going to release candidate two.
And then I think at Java one is
when the final release of 3.1 is.
Is that right?
Well, if everything goes well,
Java one will, just before Java one,
the final release of 3.1 will be out,
and the Eclipse download servers
will be absolutely maxed out.
That's the goal.
So we're starting up a Java project,
following the wizard.
And if we zoom in a little bit,
give it a name like, oh, hands-on.
And we're going to create
it from existing source.
In this case,
we'll find the code that we just created.
In our home directory, there's WWDC.
Choose it.
Finish it.
Along the way,
Eclipse tries to help you out.
It realizes that you're
creating a Java application.
And so it asks you if that's
how you want to look at it.
And of course, you do.
Is that disconcerting to see
that wave back and forth?
I'll stop it then.
So if you look at what it's
created inside a default package,
because there is no package that was
created for that swing application,
you see the three classes
that are created for you.
One of your best friends in
Eclipse is the Preference Panel,
and let's start there.
Let's close off this and close off this.
I've already got problems.
I'm reporting a whole
bunch of errors there.
There are several ways
to deal with warnings.
And we're going to
choose my favorite way,
and that is to ignore them.
So let's go to Preferences.
One of the best things you can do
with Eclipse is get familiar with
the preferences because most of
the assistance is configurable.
If you find it annoying that it pops
up things and always reminds you,
you can turn it off.
If you find the level isn't
strong enough for you,
you can turn it on.
So here under Java, under Compiler,
under Errors,
I get all the errors that it can
get warnings about or ignore.
And here at the top of
Potential Programming Problems,
I find the one that
I'm being warned about.
I can change it to Error
for a second and apply it.
That requires that you rebuild.
And you see that these all turned red.
They've now changed
from warnings to errors.
And now, of course,
if you want them to go away,
We rebuild, and we don't have to worry
about the serializable problem.
So let me interject just one thing here.
One of the interesting things about
the Eclipse compiler is that even
if your project has errors in it,
you can still run it.
Because the compiler actually produces
class files for all the files,
even the ones with errors in them.
It just puts in an exception called,
there's an error here,
wherever it finds an error,
whether it's a syntax error or
programming error like that.
And so then you can run your
program for as far as it can get.
And if you didn't actually hit
that statement or that class,
it wouldn't stop.
You find that often you
aren't looking to build it.
It's just building as you go.
And so the model's
constantly being updated.
And so if we take a look at this--
We can run this.
And right now, I'm Control-clicking on
this and selecting Run As,
Java Application.
And there's your standard swing example.
So if we can go back to the slides,
please.
So let's look at some of these
Java model-aware things while
I quickly flip ahead behind
your back to the next demo.
Well, actually, strictly speaking,
it's behind your back.
It is.
It's not behind their back.
So let's look at the
things we can create.
And you can see in the middle,
the new things added for Java 5 are,
of course, enumerations and annotations.
At the top, the things that you might
want to create are packages,
classes, interfaces.
And at the bottom, we'll take a look at
JUnit tests in a minute.
One of my favorite parts of Eclipse
is that JUnit is deeply integrated.
And we'll take a look at that.
So when you choose to add a package,
you'll notice that there's this
model thing that keeps coming up.
There's a strong correspondence
between folders and packages.
Now, if you've used just a text editor,
or you've used, oh, say,
another IDE that doesn't
have that correspondence,
this might feel different for you.
But it's nice that there's this
very Java-aware environment for you.
Right now, I'm taking the first steps
to Conway's Game of Life,
where there's cells that
you turn on and off.
And so I've created a package
named Life inside of this.
And within that package,
I'm going to create a test case.
So a JUnit test case,
are most of you familiar
with unit testing?
Great.
[Transcript missing]
When you create it,
all that information that you just
stubbed out gets generated for you.
The package information is there.
The fact that you extended
test cases up there.
And so, of course,
if you extend test case,
you need to import it.
And so there's the generated test class.
Not deep, but really useful.
And if you're doing this every
time you create a new class,
it's nice to have a tool
that works with you.
So let's take a look at a
demo of what we might do here.
And so, I think that's a great question.
[Transcript missing]
Yeah, but at least in this nightmare,
you have your pants on.
Yes.
Well, that is useful.
Let me switch back to the last workspace,
if it'll allow me to,
and see if I can continue.
Wow.
Okay,
so what I want to do in this demo is
when we created the original version,
we had a bunch of cases,
a bunch of classes that
were in the default package.
In Java 5, at least, you know that that's
definitely not a good thing.
In general, it's not a good thing.
So let's take a look here.
Thank goodness there is
a default package there.
So let's create a new package.
Let's give it a simple name like GUI,
G-U-I.
I've got my new package.
And now here's a nice
little Eclipse feature.
I've got these guys that were
living in the default package.
I want to move them to the GUI package.
If I right-click here, or Control-click,
you see this Refactor menu?
This Refactor menu is your friend.
Right now it tells you you
can only do two things.
It's context-aware,
so in different settings,
it will offer you different refactorings.
In this case, what I want to do is I want
to move these three classes.
And I choose where I want to move them.
to move them to GUI.
It checks on them.
It moves them over.
It thinks a bit.
It decides,
do I want to crash on them and
embarrass them twice in one day?
It checks on them.
It moves them over.
It thinks a bit.
It decides,
do I want to crash on them and
embarrass them twice in one day?
Okay, let's create a new menu.
And actually,
the version that didn't run,
I'd increase the font size,
so let me do that again for you.
And so under Appearance,
Suddenly the day's gotten much longer,
huh?
Well, not for you.
Adjust the font size.
Waiting is a feature.
That's another cup of
coffee waiting to happen.
Maybe not waiting this long.
Let's apply it.
Great.
So let's add a new
menu to the main class.
Are you all familiar with this template?
Is it like your favorite code?
Later, I'll tell you a story.
So let's add another menu.
So if I add a J menu,
and I call it Help Menu,
and I-- excuse me-- say
equals a new J menu.
I'm not going to be as proper,
and that is one thing that
Apple is very good at doing,
going to the resource bundle so
it's nicely internationalized.
I'm not going to do that.
I've just added a help menu.
And let's add a JMenu item.
And let's just do that by saying,
Help Menu, what can you do?
And it pops up and tells me all
the things it knows how to do.
And so one of the things I'm going
to ask it to do is to add something.
What can it add?
It can add a new J menu item.
And appropriately enough,
let's call it Don't Panic.
And finally, let's add this help menu
to my main menu bar.
Add.
It knows what to add.
I'll show you in the next demo
why I've done it this way.
We're going to show you another way
to do it where it just thinks for you.
So did you have to do anything special to
get it to pop up what it's going to do?
I didn't because I waited long enough.
I could have by doing
Control Space if I was impatient.
You're good.
So we run this.
We've got our new help menu
with the don't panic item.
We don't like where the menu bar is,
but in the interest of time,
we won't bother adding
the system property.
We'll just press through.
Back to the slides, please.
We having fun?
Gosh, yes.
This is one of my favorite features,
programming by intention.
You couldn't have even
imagined this a while ago.
Programming by intention
says you're coding along,
and you say to yourself, gosh,
I'd really like a class named this.
So you type in the class name,
and the program doesn't freak.
It says,
would you like me to create this for you?
And you go, okay.
And then you say,
I'd like this class to do this.
And the program understands
what you're doing.
So some of the help that
you have available to you in
Eclipse is the light bulb help,
some source hints, and then refactorings,
which are your best friend.
So the idea is, whatever you want,
you pretend it exists.
So I want to create a new cell object.
I say cell, cell equals a new cell.
And Eclipse lets me know
that there's something wrong.
You can see this in two ways.
You see the red squiggly
lines under cell and new cell.
And you see the light bulb with
the X on it says something's wrong.
So what's wrong?
Well, first of all,
there is no cell class.
Second of all,
there is no no-argument constructor,
although if you created a cell class,
chances are you'd have
your no-arg constructor,
and so the code won't compile.
That's where I disagree
with you slightly.
It will compile.
It'll just compile with an error.
Thank you.
Is that a feature?
No, it actually is a feature.
I use it all the time.
I write my code,
and then I don't complete it all,
and I run what I have,
so I don't have to finish
the program before I start.
So this is great with students who,
if you're a teacher,
with students whose relationship with
the compiler is not a friendly one,
and they think that the compiler
is not there to help them.
How can we fix this code?
Well, Eclipse lets us know.
And it's pretty darn smart.
It says, you've got lots of options here.
You've typed in cell,
and maybe you're mistaken,
or maybe it's what you meant to do,
and here's some things that we
could do to make that code work.
So in this case,
we'll choose to create the cell class.
We again get this helpful little pop-up,
and we choose what package it's in.
We choose its superclass.
Now, everything in Java, of course,
has a superclass,
even if it's just plain old object,
which it is in this case.
And we decide what we
want to happen here.
In this case, I've changed the modifier
from public to default.
And there's the generated cell class.
Can you back up one slide there?
No.
So one of the things they've added
in 3.1-- I'll just show you here.
You see how Properties
is now an active link?
So when you get a dialog box like that,
and you click on that active link,
it'll take you to the dialog
box to set the properties.
So you can then configure it.
You don't have to remember
which menu it is and so on.
It just tells you this is the thing
that affects that particular checkbox.
So already you're seeing that
this is better than a text editor.
It's anticipating, it's helping you,
it's working with you.
Not that I'm saying
anything about VI or Emacs.
So let's take a look
at how this might work.
So if we can go back to the demo machine,
please.
So if we go back to the Help menu,
We've already added this new JMenu item.
Let's add something else in here.
And so what I'm going to
type in here is Help Menu,
Add, O, Find Towel.
Seemed perfectly reasonable to me.
I know what FindTal is supposed to be.
Apparently, Eclipse doesn't.
And so let's see what
it's telling me I can do.
I click on the light bulb.
This is magic to me.
It says not only what it could do for me,
but if you look in the right side,
it gives me a preview of what the code's
going to look like if it does that.
And so in this case,
one of the things it can do is
create local variable findTowel,
but it's not done yet.
So we created the local variable.
Something's still wrong.
What's wrong?
I haven't-- well, I'll let it tell you.
You need to initialize the variable.
So we let it initialize the variable.
Now, you'd think Eclipse would know
exactly what's in my mind.
I'll take that back and let them know.
Huh?
I'll let the developers know
that that's a problem there.
But that's pretty far.
The fact that I actually have
to write a couple words of
code doesn't worry me too much.
So I can write a new JMenu item,
knowing that Bjorn is going
to have that fixed in 3.2.
And let's call that FineTowel.
Run it.
and that's programming by intention.
I think that's pretty neat.
We have the slides, please.
Okay.
Programming by intention is
one way to go about things,
but there's times that you
know what your intentions are,
and you're typing along,
and you just like to know
what's available to you.
Now, you see this in other IDs.
It's very common that you
start typing a package name,
and you do javax.
and all the options pop up,
and that's useful,
and we saw that before.
And that's more of what
I think of as code assist.
And so to activate code assist,
that's what Bjorn was getting at before.
The two ways is if I pause long
enough after typing my frame dot,
it'll pop up.
Or I can just do control space.
Control space is really
nice if you're in,
say, a class that extends J frame,
and you don't want to do this dot so that
you can see all the things available.
And you just do control space,
and you can see all the things
that's available to you.
The other thing is the amount of time
it takes to pop up is configurable.
It's really the way you code.
Sometimes it pops up too fast for you,
and it gets in your way,
and sometimes you just don't
want to wait that long.
So you go to the preferences,
and you can set that time.
So for instance,
in the test cell method that we wrote,
if I'm in it and I type
that I want assistance,
here are all the methods
that are available to me,
and that should look familiar to you if
you've done any unit testing using JANET.
For once you've got Assert True,
you've got this pop-up message
that lets you know that,
well,
here are the arguments it's expecting.
It's expecting a string that's
the message and then a Boolean
condition that it can test against.
And then,
let's say inside of Assert True,
what we're testing is, is the cell alive?
And now we're back to coding by
intention because there is no
isAlive method in the cell class.
And so these things work back and forth.
But again,
it knows I don't have an isAlive method.
It prompts me, and you can see that
that's how it stubs out.
In this case,
we're choosing the simplest thing,
and so isAlive just returns false.
[Transcript missing]
OK,
so if we take a look again at the demo,
please.
We've run the GUI code here.
And let me look at the About box here.
Here's the About box.
Not very interesting.
So let me get rid of it.
Let's go to aboutbox.java.
And under Super--
Let's see what we can do to add to this.
I've got an About box.
I'd like to customize the color, perhaps.
I don't want to write this
dot to see what I can do,
so I use Control + Space.
I see all the things that
I can do in this guy,
and so one of them is set.
What can I set?
I can set the background color.
As soon as you see the guy
highlighted that you want,
you can stop typing and just hit return.
So I'll hit return.
It tells me it's going to take a color.
What colors are available here?
Well, cyan works for me.
And so Code Assist is a wonderful thing.
Code Assist has enabled me to very
quickly find the methods that I want,
find the parameters that I need.
And now within the About box,
I have a beautiful blue box.
Slides, please.
How are we doing for time?
When your demo crashes, you go faster,
don't you?
OK, let's look at running some tests.
This is a different view of JUnit.
It's actually inside the IDE,
so you're not running it as a standalone.
If we run JUnit at this point,
and I'll show you what we did.
Instead of running it
as a Java application,
you just right-click and choose
to run it as a JUnit test.
What's nice here is my
tests are running green,
and I'm feeling good because I tested
that when I created a new cell,
it should be dead,
and isAlive always returns false.
That's a pretty trivial way
to get your test to pass.
You should always do the simplest thing,
and then you should make it fail again.
So is a live cell alive?
Let's create a new test method.
And so we've decided to test
a new cell should be dead.
A live cell should be alive.
We have a setAlive method
that doesn't exist yet,
so we use a little help.
We run the test as soon
as the code compiles,
so we have to add the setAlive method.
Let's just do nothing inside of it.
isAlive always returns false.
That used to be a good thing, but now,
of course, my test will fail,
because a new cell will be dead,
but a live cell, the call to isAlive,
will also return false.
So we muck around in it.
We've got a fool with it.
Watch this.
This is what I'm saying.
If you're used to coming from the
world of just text programming
and not the model underneath,
you see those three lives?
I didn't know that Eclipse put
orange circles around things.
That's pretty cool.
How do you make that happen?
It's in 3.2.
Oh, OK.
Those three Alives are
different from those two Alives.
Not all the Alives are the same.
This is part of the
magic of the refactoring,
that if I wanted to--
This could be a much-- if
I wanted to change these two
Alives to a different name,
it would leave the other ones alone.
It knows the difference between
the Alives that refer to this
local variable from the ones that
refer to the instance variable.
And in spite of the fact that the
orange circles didn't come from Eclipse,
the yellow highlights do.
Yes.
So you can highlight the variables.
The art department didn't
think that was clear enough,
so there's your orange circles.
And in spite of the fact that the
orange circles didn't come from Eclipse,
the yellow highlights do.
Yes.
So you can highlight the variables.
The art department didn't
think that was clear enough,
so there's your orange circles.
And in spite of the fact that the
orange circles didn't come from Eclipse,
the yellow highlights do.
Yes.
So you can highlight the variables.
The art department didn't
think that was clear enough,
so there's your orange circles.
One of the nicest things
was you no longer need to
do get content pane dot add.
You can just do direct add.
I know it sounds like a
small feature in Java 5,
but boy, it feels good.
Common refactorings,
and one of the major code smells,
is when you see repeated codes.
So, for instance, the fact that you
created a cell each time,
you pull it out.
If you look at the available refactoring,
so if you want to take this
code back and then right-click
on it with Eclipse and see what
refactorings are available to you,
you'll see that you can make
the local variable into a field,
you can extract the instantiation,
you can pull it up,
you can use your setup method.
And so your resulting
code is much cleaner.
You've only created your cell once.
You've got your declaration.
It's private cell, cell at the top.
And inside the setup method is
where you instantiate it each
time you run a test method.
So, once more to the demo machine.
And while he's switching
to the demo machine,
the interesting thing-- well,
another interesting thing about that
highlighting of the yellow variables and
so on is that that works also in Javadoc.
So the model that Eclipse keeps behind
there is not just for the source code,
but also for the Javadoc.
So you know when you're typing
Javadoc tags about like C,
another method, and another class,
you can go to that Javadoc tag and press
take me to the definition of this method,
and it'll take you right to
that source file because it's
not just textual substitution.
It's actually a model,
and it works on the Javadoc side
as well as on the code side.
So we talked about all this Java 5 stuff,
but where do we set that?
So let's look at the
preferences again for Eclipse.
If we look at the preferences,
we're actually going to set
it in two different places.
If you go down to the Java menu,
we're going to set it for the compiler.
You see the compiler compliance level.
That's what it's going to use
to enforce at this level for
all the new keywords and such.
If I apply that, well,
something's changed.
We have to rebuild it.
The second place is I'm going
to go down to Install JREs.
And even though this
looks like checkboxes,
these are radio buttons.
And so check Java 5.
And now we're 5.0 compliant.
Oh, we got problems.
We got problems already.
So the method show is deprecated.
So it takes us to show, and we think,
well, it's deprecated.
It's got a cross through it.
You know what?
I don't need it.
Once I've set visible to true,
So I've removed it,
and my problems go away.
I'm looking at my notes here
because my stage demos aren't there.
Sorry about that.
So I wanted to show
you a find and replace.
And so if we look at pref pane--
So here's two different ways of renaming.
If I have Prefs text here,
do you see when I clicked on it,
all the other things
that are highlighted?
Those are other references
to the same variable.
So that's what Bjorn meant was that
wasn't an artifact of the slide.
That's actually in Eclipse.
And so if I choose to refactor that,
a shortcut to refactoring,
which you'll come to love, is Alt,
Command T.
And so one of the things
I can do is rename.
If I rename it to Preferences, Text,
You'll notice that all the instances
are now renamed to Preferences Text.
I know, but it saves you.
The other thing you
can do is do a search.
And so I can do a search
for this.getContentPane.
And I can choose to
replace that with anything,
including replace it with nothing.
[Transcript missing]
Not only does Eclipse know
what you do want to have,
Eclipse has a good idea of
what you don't want to have.
And so let me add an import
statement for something I don't need.
So let me do import javax.media.jai.
I feel so proud of myself.
I've imported this new package.
And do you see the
yellow underline there?
Eclipse knows that I've imported
something and I never use that import.
And so for those of you that don't
use .star and use specific ones,
as you no longer need the classes
that you've done an import for,
you get flagged and you get told,
you don't need that anymore,
do you want to get rid of it?
And so we can remove the import
because it's not needed anymore.
And that's a nice way to clean
up code because otherwise it
just gets gooier and gooier.
Boy, there's a thought that
just went flying somewhere.
Well, one of the things I use that scheme
for is I actually never write
imports because I find them redundant
since Eclipse will do them for me.
So I just write all my code and it says,
well, I don't know this class and
I don't know this class.
And then I use the
organize imports method,
which goes out and puts in all the
import statements for me for all the
classes that it doesn't know about
and asks if there's any ambiguity.
And so it just fills it
all in because I'm lazy.
And again, that's all configurable
in the preferences.
And so that's another nice thing, too.
So we'll go back to the slides, please.
So we've now set the IDE to use J2SE 5.0.
And so let's take a look at some
of the things that it can do.
We just set the VM preferences.
This is so that it's in your slide.
So when you go home, you go, oh,
where was that?
That's where you do it.
So that little circle
also is in an Eclipse.
But you can see that interface
and enums are now in.
And so you can work with those.
Also, one of the things you can
work with is generics.
And so, for instance, here--
We're working with an int,
and we want to change it.
So let's take a look.
We have squares,
and we're getting these yellow squiggles.
It's telling us that, well,
you can use ints here,
but maybe it would be nicer.
If you used an iterator
with a generic type,
you specified the type that you're using.
And so if we go ahead and
use a parameterized type,
you'll find that appears whenever
you need it in your refactorings.
And so the list for squares,
it didn't fill in the type in this case.
I'll show you an example
in a minute where it does.
So it didn't fill in the type,
but you go ahead and fill in that
question mark instead of the wildcard
with the type you actually want.
In this case, Integer.
And I get a lot safer, smarter code.
That's, of course,
Java 5 dependent there, though.
So to the Batmobile.
Back to the demo.
And here in About box,
[Transcript missing]
I guess I should ask Francois,
the person that wrote this code here?
Never mind.
It's wonderful.
But we're going to do
it a little differently.
[Transcript missing]
I'm getting a problem here.
So what's the possible
problem that I'm getting?
I don't have the import
statement in there,
so I'll go ahead,
even though Bjorn has a better way,
but I'll persist.
Now, this is a little flaky.
List labelList equals new ArrayList,
and it seems like it doesn't
understand what I'm saying.
The fix is going to be a
little bit interesting here.
Change the type of
labelList to ArrayList.
You see the deal here?
LabelList is being created
by a call to ArrayList,
so it knows it has to be of that type.
And yet, when I double-click here...
One of the choices is to
use the interface list,
which is what I typed in the first place.
But because it's not just using a string,
it had to make sure that that
was the list that I meant.
So I apparently double-clicked
on ArrayList instead of List.
But you'll forgive me and we'll go on.
So we can now, one of the nice things,
because we're now Java 5 compliant here,
is we can use that sort
of a for loop instead.
And so we can say for a JLabel.
Okay.
[Transcript missing]
and it's just as happy as can be.
I can do whatever I want in there.
So there's your new for loop as well.
Not doing anything now, but again,
it's no worse.
So we'll go back to the slides, please.
Home Stretch.
Building Plugins.
You can do this on other platforms.
It's not the part of Eclipse
that Bjorn was stressing today.
And the main thing was to
show you that it can be done,
and it can be done very easily
here on the Mac as well.
And so instead of choosing
to build a new Java project,
you'll choose to build
a new plugin project.
If you look in the plugins,
you'll see that Eclipse
is just a ton of plugins.
And during their first
couple years of existence,
that was a big part of the stump
speech was that Eclipse is this
very thin platform on which
everything is done with plugins.
And people said, well,
I want to build my own.
And so here you can.
So you choose to create a plugin.
You name your plugin.
We're going to create it
based on the Java project.
We'll call it Hello WWDC.
[Transcript missing]
Looks like a lot of stuff.
And I don't know if you go to your
local Jug meeting and you hear this,
but it seems that in Cleveland,
at our local Jug,
a lot of people come in and say,
look how much you can
do and not write code.
And that's a little scary.
But here you can actually access
the code that you're generating
and modify it and play with it.
And so here's the directory of
what you've created and where.
A lot of the life is going to live
down there in that plugin.xml file,
but you'll see that what it calls
is that sample action.java file.
So running the plug-in,
this is kind of interesting.
You're creating a plug-in.
The plug-in has to run
as part of Eclipse,
but you're developing in Eclipse.
And so what you have to do is you
have to bring up another instance
of Eclipse to test your plug-in in.
And that's what happens at the bottom,
where it says,
launch an Eclipse application.
So you'll launch another instance
of Eclipse in which you are testing
the plug-in that you're developing.
[Transcript missing]
and it looks something like that.
You create a new menu with
a new menu item in it.
So, when you run the plug-in,
either way you get a little pop-up.
Life is happy.
OK.
If you look in the extensions,
you see the sample action.
That's whether you accessed it from
the menu bar or from the toolbar.
That's the thing that actually happens.
And so here is the XML view.
This is the GUI view.
I find it easier to see things here,
but however you're more comfortable.
If you look down here at the bottom,
You can see,
as I jump off the back of the stage,
you can see there's the class that's
called when you enable the action.
There's a tooltip there,
and there's a menu bar as well.
And so you've got
something in the toolbar,
you've got something in the menu bar,
and you've got the tooltip that pops up
when you access the thing in the toolbar.
So it's all there right in the XML file.
Deploying the plug-in, again,
there's another wizard that
takes you through that.
What's new in Eclipse 3.1 is you can now
deploy the plug-in as a JAR file instead
of a directory of different things,
and that's sort of a neater
way to distribute it.
And so we can package the
plug-in as a JAR archive.
[Transcript missing]
You can sit-- well,
because they have an Eclipse book,
but they were closed
before the session's over.
And so it's-- So can you use it to order
things other than the Eclipse book?
You can.
So for Pearl Books, it's T5 WWDC.
Tango 5, Whiskey Whiskey, Delta Charlie.
If we have to spell out WWC.